Hello pilots!
Today, we will discuss with you the LaGG-3, a Soviet tier V fighter.
This aircraft is interesting in many aspects.
It is the first aircraft in the Lavochkin aircraft branch and also opens the way to the Yakovlev branch.
Additionally, it has plenty of configurations.
But, first things first.
Its precursor in the branch is the I-16 (late mod.)
Unfortunately, the LaGG-3 inherited only the RS-82 rockets and the opportunity to unmount one of the 12.7mm BS machine guns.
Also, the LaGG-3 doesn’t have the incredible manoeuvrability the I-16 has.
Instead, the LaGG-3 gets twice as many hit points, greater speed, and the opportunity to mount autocannons of up to 37mm in size.
Sounds quite good.
Among other fighters of its tier, the LaGG-3 is also looks quite well.
It loses in durability only to the Focke-Wulf and the American fighters.
Manoeuvrability is quite good.
Only the A6M2 Zero and the Yak-1 are more manoeuvrable.
A wide choice of weapons allows you to adjust the LaGG-3’s characteristics to fit your personal style of flying.
With all available weapons mounted, the LaGG-3 has the highest firepower and lowest speed in its tier.
In its lightest configuration, the LaGG-3 is outmatched in speed only by the P-40 and the Fw. 190 V, but has the weakest armament.
We recommend to mount the single 23mm VYa-23 autocannon and two 12.7mm BS machine guns.
Why not the 37mm autocannon, you might ask?
Unfortunately, its accuracy and rate of fire are quite low and it overheats quite fast.
So, now we know about the aircraft, and we’ve chosen its configuration.
Let’s get into battle.
We’re at the top of the list.
According to its specifications, the optimum altitude for the LaGG-3 is 1050 metres.
However, it can comfortably fly at an altitude up to 1500 metres.
At the beginning of the battle, fly with a group of allied fighters toward the enemy at an altitude of 500 metres.
You can engage in combat either being at the leading edge or in the second or the third wave.
You should plunge into massive dogfights only if you have support from friendly aircraft.
Flying alone, the LaGG-3 is an easy target just like any other aircraft in its tier.
You should attack more manoeuvrable enemy aircraft first.
They pose a greater threat for you than high-altitude aircraft.
Try to intercept them when flying by or bring down those who try to attack your team mates from behind.
You can attack light-armed enemy aircraft head-on.
American and German aircraft should be your next priority.
Avoid their boom & zoom attacks.
We’ll tell you how you can do that later on.
Engage them a turnfight and don’t let them gain altitude.
You should avoid head-on attacks with them.
The Fw. 190V is armed just as well as the LaGG-3.
Heavy fighters are harder to counter.
Try to outmanoeuvre them and don’t let them speed away.
Don’t stay long behind heavy fighters or you’ll be damaged by their rear gunners.
Destroying attack aircraft is quite easy.
However, don’t lose your focus because attack aircraft can destroy you with a bomb.
Sometimes you’ll find your LaGG-3 at the bottom of the list.
However, that’s not an issue for this fighter.
You should stay behind higher-tier allies and choose your targets more carefully.
Monitor the situation around you so you don’t get under heavy enemy fire and stay with large groups of allied aircraft.
The LaGG-3’s good weapons and decent manoeuvrability make such battles easier.
Let’s summarise:
The LaGG-3 is a really nice aircraft to master.
Due to wide choice of modules, you can choose any combat tactics you prefer while maintaining good manoeuvrability.
Such adjustability allows the LaGG-3 to successfully counter almost every aircraft in its tier.
If you’re still unsure what branch you want to research, the hero of our story for today will help you make the right choice.
So, experiment and choose the best option for you.
The LaGG-3 will help you with this.